README.md, before:

# Elia PoC

Scripts and infrastructure config for Flex, OCN components used in the Elia
PoC.

## Maintainer
- Adam Staveley (`@adamstaveley`)

## Usage

### Scripts

A mix of shell and nodeJS scripts are provided for interacting with the PoC
infrastructure. 

Before using the following scripts, make sure the following dependencies are 
met:
- [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) is installed
- node LTS is installed
- `npm install` has been run in the root of the repository

There are several environment variables needed for the scripts to work. Ask the
maintainer if you do not already have them. In the below examples they are used
per command, but it is also possible to export them on a per profile basis.

```sh
export SSH_IDENTITY=/path/to/id_rsa
```

#### Charging

These scripts allow for starting and stopping charging sessions. They can be 
found in the `scripts/charging` directory. 

- Get MSP tokens stored in the Flex backend:
```sh
SSH_IDENTITY=/path/to/id_rsa sh get_tokens.sh
```

- Get CPO locations stored in the Flex backend:
```sh
SSH_IDENTITY=/path/to/id_rsa sh get_locations.sh
```

- Get sessions stored in the Flex backend:
```sh
SSH_IDENTITY=/path/to/id_rsa sh get_sessions.sh
```

- Start a session as MSP on CPO system. We first generate a signature using the
MSP's private key, then pipe it into our start script:
```sh
MSP_PRIVATE_KEY=0x123xxx789 node signatures/generate_start.js | MSP_AUTH_TOKEN=xxx sh start_session.sh
```

- Stop a session as MSP on CPO system (same process as above):
```sh
export SESSION_ID=xxx
MSP_PRIVATE_KEY=0x123xxx789 node generate_start.js | MSP_AUTH_TOKEN=xxx sh stop_session.sh 
```

Note the environment variable "SESSION_ID" needs to be sourced from the Flex
backend. This can be done using the `get_session.sh` script, which returns an
array of session objects: find the session you wish to stop (i.e. one with an
"ACTIVE" status) and look for the the `id` field (not `_id`). We export it in
the above example as both scripts need access to it (signing and sending the 
id).

#### Identity

These scripts enable the creation of DIDs for business users and their
managed devices. They are available in the `scripts/identity` directory.

- Create a business user DID (using the private key configured in the backend):
```
USER_PRIVATE_KEY=0x123xxx789 USER_TYPE=MSP create_user_did.js
```

Where `USER_TYPE` can be one of: `MSP`, `CPO` or `FLEX`. 

If successful the user's DID Document (with DID itself included within) will
be presented in stdout. You can save this by appending `> cpo.json` to the
command.

- Create a DID for a DER:
```
PARENT_DID=did:ethr:0x123xxx789 DER_TYPE=EV create_der_did.js
``` 


### Infra

Infrastructure currently runs on two instances: web (flex) and device
(msp/cpo simulations).

Within each instance the setup is the same. We use docker-compose to manage our
OCN Node (and its database), as well as any application servers (flex-backend,
ocn-tools). We also have a deploy script to update and re-build the application
docker image.

Several parameters specific to the application and its OCN Node need to be setup
first, including:
- private keys
- database passwords
- ocpi tokens
- api keys

These need to be configured in environment variables in `docker-compose.yml` or
in the node's `application.properties`.

Once setup, general compose usage is as follows:

- Start all services:
```
docker-compose up -d
```

- Rebuild and start a service (declared in `docker-compose.yml`):
```
docker-compose build <service_name>
docker-compose up -d --no-deps <service_name>
```

- Check logs of a service:
```
docker-compose logs -f <service_name>
```

Commit message:

use a config file for identity management

README.md, after:

# Elia PoC

Scripts and infrastructure config for Flex, OCN components used in the Elia
PoC.

## Maintainer
- Adam Staveley (`@adamstaveley`)

## Usage

### Scripts

A mix of shell and nodeJS scripts are provided for interacting with the PoC
infrastructure. 

Before using the following scripts, make sure the following dependencies are 
met:
- [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) is installed
- node LTS is installed
- `npm install` has been run in the root of the repository

There are several environment variables needed for the scripts to work. Ask the
maintainer if you do not already have them. In the below examples they are used
per command, but it is also possible to export them on a per profile basis.

```sh
export SSH_IDENTITY=/path/to/id_rsa
```

#### Charging

These scripts allow for starting and stopping charging sessions. They can be 
found in the `scripts/charging` directory. 

- Get MSP tokens stored in the Flex backend:
```sh
SSH_IDENTITY=/path/to/id_rsa sh get_tokens.sh
```

- Get CPO locations stored in the Flex backend:
```sh
SSH_IDENTITY=/path/to/id_rsa sh get_locations.sh
```

- Get sessions stored in the Flex backend:
```sh
SSH_IDENTITY=/path/to/id_rsa sh get_sessions.sh
```

- Start a session as MSP on CPO system. We first generate a signature using the
MSP's private key, then pipe it into our start script:
```sh
MSP_PRIVATE_KEY=0x123xxx789 node signatures/generate_start.js | MSP_AUTH_TOKEN=xxx sh start_session.sh
```

- Stop a session as MSP on CPO system (same process as above):
```sh
export SESSION_ID=xxx
MSP_PRIVATE_KEY=0x123xxx789 node generate_start.js | MSP_AUTH_TOKEN=xxx sh stop_session.sh 
```

Note the environment variable "SESSION_ID" needs to be sourced from the Flex
backend. This can be done using the `get_session.sh` script, which returns an
array of session objects: find the session you wish to stop (i.e. one with an
"ACTIVE" status) and look for the the `id` field (not `_id`). We export it in
the above example as both scripts need access to it (signing and sending the 
id).

#### Identity

These scripts enable the creation of DIDs for business users and their
managed devices. They are available in the `scripts/identity` directory.
Here, operations are performed in bulk using an `identities.json` file.
An example file has been provided, which you should copy:

```
cp identities.example.json identities.json
```

Populate the users array with the business users you wish to create 
DIDs for first. 

- Create business user DIDs:
```
create_user_dids.js
```

The script will save the newly created DIDs in `identities.json` for each
entry in the "users" array. Note it will skip the operation if a DID 
already exists for the user.

- Create a DID for a DER:

*TODO*

```
create_der_did.js
``` 


### Infra

Infrastructure currently runs on two instances: web (flex) and device
(msp/cpo simulations).

Within each instance the setup is the same. We use docker-compose to manage our
OCN Node (and its database), as well as any application servers (flex-backend,
ocn-tools). We also have a deploy script to update and re-build the application
docker image.

Several parameters specific to the application and its OCN Node need to be setup
first, including:
- private keys
- database passwords
- ocpi tokens
- api keys

These need to be configured in environment variables in `docker-compose.yml` or
in the node's `application.properties`.

Once setup, general compose usage is as follows:

- Start all services:
```
docker-compose up -d
```

- Rebuild and start a service (declared in `docker-compose.yml`):
```
docker-compose build <service_name>
docker-compose up -d --no-deps <service_name>
```

- Check logs of a service:
```
docker-compose logs -f <service_name>
```
